docs/LAN_ACCESS.md, before:

# LAN Access Configuration Guide

## Overview

This guide explains how to expose M3W services to the local area network, allowing other devices on the same network to access them.

## Quick Start (Automated)

For quick setup, use the automated configuration script:

```powershell
# From project root directory
.\scripts\setup-lan.ps1

# Or with a custom IP address
.\scripts\setup-lan.ps1 -CustomIP "10.4.196.6"

# Skip firewall configuration (run manually as admin later)
.\scripts\setup-lan.ps1 -SkipFirewall
```

The script will automatically:

- Detect your LAN IP address (or use the provided one)
- Update `backend/.env` with correct HOST, CORS_ORIGIN, and callback URLs
- Update `frontend/.env` with correct API URL
- Configure Windows Firewall rules (if running as administrator)
- Display access URLs for testing

For manual configuration or troubleshooting, continue reading below.

## Configuration Steps

### 1. Get Your Local IP Address

Run in PowerShell:

```powershell
# Get local LAN IP address
Get-NetIPAddress -AddressFamily IPv4 | Where-Object {$_.IPAddress -like "192.168.*" -or $_.IPAddress -like "10.*"}
```

Assume your IP address is `192.168.1.100`

### 2. Update Backend Environment Variables

Edit `backend/.env`:

```bash
# Server Configuration
PORT=4000
HOST=0.0.0.0  # Listen on all network interfaces

# CORS Configuration - Allow LAN access
CORS_ORIGIN=http://192.168.1.100:3000

# GitHub OAuth callback URL (if using GitHub login)
GITHUB_CALLBACK_URL=http://192.168.1.100:4000/api/auth/callback

# API Base URL
API_BASE_URL=http://192.168.1.100:4000
```

**Note**: If you need to support multiple client access, you can set `CORS_ORIGIN` to `*`, but only use this in development:

```bash
CORS_ORIGIN=*
```

### 3. Update Frontend Environment Variables

Edit `frontend/.env`:

```bash
# Use local LAN IP
VITE_API_URL=http://192.168.1.100:4000
```

### 4. Frontend Vite Configuration

`frontend/vite.config.ts` is already configured to listen on all network interfaces:

```typescript
server: {
  host: '0.0.0.0', // ✅ Already configured
  port: 3000,
  open: true,
}
```

### 5. Firewall Configuration

#### Windows Firewall

You need to allow the following ports:

- **3000**: Vite frontend service
- **4000**: Hono backend API
- **5432**: PostgreSQL (if you need to access database from other machines)
- **9000**: MinIO (if direct access is needed)

#### Method 1: Using PowerShell (Administrator privileges required)

```powershell
# Allow Vite (3000)
New-NetFirewallRule -DisplayName "M3W Frontend" -Direction Inbound -LocalPort 3000 -Protocol TCP -Action Allow

# Allow Hono (4000)
New-NetFirewallRule -DisplayName "M3W Backend" -Direction Inbound -LocalPort 4000 -Protocol TCP -Action Allow
```

#### Method 2: Using GUI

1. Open `Windows Defender Firewall`
2. Click `Advanced Settings`
3. Select `Inbound Rules` → `New Rule`
4. Select `Port` → `TCP` → Enter port numbers `3000, 4000`
5. Select `Allow the connection`
6. Apply to all profiles
7. Name the rule "M3W Development"

### 6. Start Services

```powershell
# In project root directory
npm run dev
```

### 7. Access Services

#### From Local Machine

- Frontend: <http://localhost:3000>
- Backend: <http://localhost:4000>

#### From Other Devices on LAN

- Frontend: <http://192.168.1.100:3000>
- Backend: <http://192.168.1.100:4000>

## Testing Connection

### Test Backend API

Access from another device's browser:

```Text
http://192.168.1.100:4000/health
```

Should return:

```json
{
  "status": "ok",
  "timestamp": "2025-11-12T...",
  "uptime": 123.45
}
```

### Test Frontend

Access from another device's browser:

```Text
http://192.168.1.100:3000
```

You should see the M3W login page.

## Troubleshooting

### Issue 1: Cannot Connect to Service

**Checklist**:

1. ✅ Firewall rules added
2. ✅ Services are running (`npm run dev`)
3. ✅ IP address is correct (check with `ipconfig` or `Get-NetIPAddress`)
4. ✅ Client and server are on the same network
5. ✅ CORS_ORIGIN is configured correctly

**Debug commands**:

```powershell
# Check if ports are listening
netstat -an | Select-String "3000|4000"

# Should see output like:
# TCP    0.0.0.0:3000           0.0.0.0:0              LISTENING
# TCP    0.0.0.0:4000           0.0.0.0:0              LISTENING
```

### Issue 2: CORS Error

If frontend cannot call backend API, check:

1. Is `CORS_ORIGIN` in `backend/.env` set to include frontend address
2. Does browser console show CORS errors

**Temporary solution** (development only):

```bash
# backend/.env
CORS_ORIGIN=*
```

### Issue 3: GitHub OAuth Failure

GitHub OAuth callback URL must match the actual access address:

- If accessing from `http://192.168.1.100:3000`, callback URL should be `http://192.168.1.100:4000/api/auth/callback`
- You need to add this callback URL in GitHub OAuth App settings

## Production Environment Notes

⚠️ **The above configuration is only for development and LAN testing**

Production deployment should:

1. Use domain names instead of IP addresses
2. Enable HTTPS/TLS
3. Use reverse proxy (Nginx/Traefik)
4. Restrict CORS to specific domains
5. Configure appropriate security policies

## References

- Backend configuration: `backend/.env.example`
- Frontend configuration: `frontend/.env.example`
- Vite configuration: `frontend/vite.config.ts`
- Project architecture: `.github/instructions/project-context.instructions.md`

Commit message:

fix(crypto): add Web Crypto API fallbacks for HTTP LAN access (#126)
* fix(crypto): add Web Crypto API fallbacks for HTTP LAN access

- Add @aws-crypto/sha256-browser for SHA256 fallback
- Add generateUUID() utility for crypto.randomUUID() fallback
- Update hash.ts to use auto-detecting crypto library
- Replace all crypto.randomUUID() calls with generateUUID()
- Update LAN_ACCESS.md with compatibility documentation

Closes #102

* test: add uuid utility tests

docs/LAN_ACCESS.md, after:

# LAN Access Configuration Guide

## Overview

This guide explains how to expose M3W services to the local area network, allowing other devices on the same network to access them.

## Quick Start (Automated)

For quick setup, use the automated configuration script:

```powershell
# From project root directory
.\scripts\setup-lan.ps1

# Or with a custom IP address
.\scripts\setup-lan.ps1 -CustomIP "10.4.196.6"

# Skip firewall configuration (run manually as admin later)
.\scripts\setup-lan.ps1 -SkipFirewall
```

The script will automatically:

- Detect your LAN IP address (or use the provided one)
- Update `backend/.env` with correct HOST, CORS_ORIGIN, and callback URLs
- Update `frontend/.env` with correct API URL
- Configure Windows Firewall rules (if running as administrator)
- Display access URLs for testing

For manual configuration or troubleshooting, continue reading below.

## Configuration Steps

### 1. Get Your Local IP Address

Run in PowerShell:

```powershell
# Get local LAN IP address
Get-NetIPAddress -AddressFamily IPv4 | Where-Object {$_.IPAddress -like "192.168.*" -or $_.IPAddress -like "10.*"}
```

Assume your IP address is `192.168.1.100`

### 2. Update Backend Environment Variables

Edit `backend/.env`:

```bash
# Server Configuration
PORT=4000
HOST=0.0.0.0  # Listen on all network interfaces

# CORS Configuration - Allow LAN access
CORS_ORIGIN=http://192.168.1.100:3000

# GitHub OAuth callback URL (if using GitHub login)
GITHUB_CALLBACK_URL=http://192.168.1.100:4000/api/auth/callback

# API Base URL
API_BASE_URL=http://192.168.1.100:4000
```

**Note**: If you need to support multiple client access, you can set `CORS_ORIGIN` to `*`, but only use this in development:

```bash
CORS_ORIGIN=*
```

### 3. Update Frontend Environment Variables

Edit `frontend/.env`:

```bash
# Use local LAN IP
VITE_API_URL=http://192.168.1.100:4000
```

### 4. Frontend Vite Configuration

`frontend/vite.config.ts` is already configured to listen on all network interfaces:

```typescript
server: {
  host: '0.0.0.0', // ✅ Already configured
  port: 3000,
  open: true,
}
```

### 5. Firewall Configuration

#### Windows Firewall

You need to allow the following ports:

- **3000**: Vite frontend service
- **4000**: Hono backend API
- **5432**: PostgreSQL (if you need to access database from other machines)
- **9000**: MinIO (if direct access is needed)

#### Method 1: Using PowerShell (Administrator privileges required)

```powershell
# Allow Vite (3000)
New-NetFirewallRule -DisplayName "M3W Frontend" -Direction Inbound -LocalPort 3000 -Protocol TCP -Action Allow

# Allow Hono (4000)
New-NetFirewallRule -DisplayName "M3W Backend" -Direction Inbound -LocalPort 4000 -Protocol TCP -Action Allow
```

#### Method 2: Using GUI

1. Open `Windows Defender Firewall`
2. Click `Advanced Settings`
3. Select `Inbound Rules` → `New Rule`
4. Select `Port` → `TCP` → Enter port numbers `3000, 4000`
5. Select `Allow the connection`
6. Apply to all profiles
7. Name the rule "M3W Development"

### 6. Start Services

```powershell
# In project root directory
npm run dev
```

### 7. Access Services

#### From Local Machine

- Frontend: <http://localhost:3000>
- Backend: <http://localhost:4000>

#### From Other Devices on LAN

- Frontend: <http://192.168.1.100:3000>
- Backend: <http://192.168.1.100:4000>

## Testing Connection

### Test Backend API

Access from another device's browser:

```Text
http://192.168.1.100:4000/health
```

Should return:

```json
{
  "status": "ok",
  "timestamp": "2025-11-12T...",
  "uptime": 123.45
}
```

### Test Frontend

Access from another device's browser:

```Text
http://192.168.1.100:3000
```

You should see the M3W login page.

## Troubleshooting

### Issue 1: Cannot Connect to Service

**Checklist**:

1. ✅ Firewall rules added
2. ✅ Services are running (`npm run dev`)
3. ✅ IP address is correct (check with `ipconfig` or `Get-NetIPAddress`)
4. ✅ Client and server are on the same network
5. ✅ CORS_ORIGIN is configured correctly

**Debug commands**:

```powershell
# Check if ports are listening
netstat -an | Select-String "3000|4000"

# Should see output like:
# TCP    0.0.0.0:3000           0.0.0.0:0              LISTENING
# TCP    0.0.0.0:4000           0.0.0.0:0              LISTENING
```

### Issue 2: CORS Error

If frontend cannot call backend API, check:

1. Is `CORS_ORIGIN` in `backend/.env` set to include frontend address
2. Does browser console show CORS errors

**Temporary solution** (development only):

```bash
# backend/.env
CORS_ORIGIN=*
```

### Issue 3: GitHub OAuth Failure

GitHub OAuth callback URL must match the actual access address:

- If accessing from `http://192.168.1.100:3000`, callback URL should be `http://192.168.1.100:4000/api/auth/callback`
- You need to add this callback URL in GitHub OAuth App settings

## Production Environment Notes

⚠️ **The above configuration is only for development and LAN testing**

Production deployment should:

1. Use domain names instead of IP addresses
2. Enable HTTPS/TLS
3. Use reverse proxy (Nginx/Traefik)
4. Restrict CORS to specific domains
5. Configure appropriate security policies

## Web Crypto API Compatibility

As of v0.1.1, M3W fully supports HTTP-based LAN access. The following Web Crypto APIs that normally require HTTPS now have fallback implementations:

| API | Fallback | Notes |
|-----|----------|-------|
| `crypto.subtle.digest()` | `@aws-crypto/sha256-browser` | Auto-detects secure context, falls back to pure JS |
| `crypto.randomUUID()` | `crypto.getRandomValues()` based | Standards-compliant UUID v4 generation |

**Performance Note**: The pure JS fallbacks are slower than native implementations. For large file uploads over HTTP LAN, expect slightly longer hash calculation times. HTTPS access will automatically use the faster native APIs.

## References

- Backend configuration: `backend/.env.example`
- Frontend configuration: `frontend/.env.example`
- Vite configuration: `frontend/vite.config.ts`
- Project architecture: `.github/instructions/project-context.instructions.md`
